Digitisation, like archives, revolves around the state. I don't want to ignore everyone else who helps pay for digitisation efforts. Different kinds of donors and projects, often out of universities, contribute to digital efforts. However, if I'm being serious, there is really only one main source for financial backing of digitisation efforts, and that's the state. 

Both the US and other western states sit as the core funder of digitisation efforts. While it could be argued that this is equivalent to 'everyone in the country' paying for it, the state is a distinct entity from 'everyone'. The state has it's own biases in what gets digitised, and the very central source of funding is even more focused then the rest of professional history from what I can see. 

In some ways, I think the newness of digital history, and inability for lawmakers and policymakers to grasp the implications of digitisation has helped shield digital history from the implications of its own funding. The US state, in particular, makes comparatively little use of the power it has over funding. This has left, in my opinion, digital history in a strange place where the primary funding source of the work has little interest or understanding of it, and rather some parts of the professional state simply direct the funding provided. Where a university might look closely at the funding of projects, it's likely that almost none of congressional representatives pay much attention to how state grant money on projects like this is being spent. This is understandable considering the amounts of money involved, but still creates a strange situation. 

The work is largely done by a semi-professional core of historians, volunteers and students who don't digitise as a job, but rather digitise as a part of other work or projects. The biases of who participates in this work are the biases of both histories, but importantly of the digital space. More then any other bias, in my opinion, this pushes history back into a space where the digitisation is done first by a core of western and wealthy university graduates. Despite potential, the nature of digitisation, interest, grants and training has failed to democratise digital history. 


Ethically, digital history has two sides that interest me. First, there is the ethical issues surrounding which topics receive attention, because only those topics which are receiving active work are part of the digitisation push. This consideration, in my view, is quite similar to the same question in the rest of history, simply made more pressing by the fact that there is very little 'back catalog' of work. If people don't care about it right now (right now in the sense of the last 15 years), the work will not be part of digital history.

The second side that's interesting is that digital history propagates ethical dimensions of older work. Issues of the past are made exceptionally relevant, because in digitisation, we are forced to grapple with these issues of the past. 

I don't think either of these ethical dimensions are totally separate from 'history' as a larger field. Digital history is certainly has its own story and line of work, but it remains unproven to me that the issues are so different from the rest of history. Archives and standard historical work are increasingly digital, with journals primarily both produced and consumed online. The tools of digital history might be different, but I think we will find that increasingly, the ethics are the same. 


"Does Carleton give you any resources for getting those materials onto your own machine in formats you can read?" - I'm unsure how to respond to this part of the reflection. Carleton provides some tools, for example, this class. While many of the resources I use are simply available online, I found almost all of them specific to digital history through classes at Carleton. While I was already aware of how to use a proxy, for example, It was a class at Carleton that taught me how to apply that skill to historical searches to help avoid google biases. 

In terms of barriers, most have been easy to access other then the fact that I had to take a university course to either understand how to use them (in the case of the library resources) or be shown them (in the case of most online tools). Time and money, then, are both barriers. I’ve found few other then that, nearly any resource I’ve wanted I’ve been able to get, even if this involves getting PDFs from other universities through RACER. 


In many ways, my participation in the 'digital history machine' is a continuation of most other people who are part of the machine. I'm a history major, born and raised in the west. I'm a man who learned how to use computers and coding resources almost totally from other western men, particularly my father who showed me how to use our brand new home desktop when I was about 2, which I understand cost a fairly astronomical amount. Both my parents and some of my grandparents were university graduates, some of them in history. I have three cousins with degrees in history, and I was introduced to both standard and digital history by my mother before attending university. My case is even more extreme, as I was homeschooled for a time by my aunt, who herself has a history degree and at the time had a son working on a history degree. In this way, I am emblematic of the closed nature that digital history can take on. People with the means and social networks that encourage participation in the machine can make it dangerously closed. 

Digital history is not easy to start doing. History as a field is vast and pays poorly. It's hard to understand and enter without going through the university system, despite theoretical openness, and this creates an environment where only a select group of people can afford to do history. Digital history, requiring active, present interest and another group of digital skills on top of history, adds even more natural barriers to entry. I enjoy some of the most traditional types of history, economic history and the world history of grand theories and systems. While my interests as a person with a disability pushes me in interesting directions with regards to the history of disability, I'm not even the first person in my family with a disability to earn a history degree: my uncle got a double major in history and politics from Carleton a few decades ago, and has even recently audited some classes in his retirement, despite the advanced state of his MS. 

I am, I suppose, a propagation of the machine. With one parent as a computer science graduate, and the other from liberal arts, I am able to entre digital history with significantly more ease then a vast majority of people. I am likely to do some digital history as a part of a postgraduate degree, even if I'm not planning to do history exactly. It is simply easier for me than most other people to produce new digital history, from digitisation to whole digital projects. Coming into this class, for example, I already had a good awareness of machine learning for handwriting digitisation, exactly because my brother works with machine learning. We discussed the applications of XAI projects out of various universities at the dinner table recently, and when I had brief trouble in the course, I could simply ask him about issues with the R installer. For this class, I chose to use my personal computers, rather then the shared family ones, which already had R, python and conda installed. It is exactly this comparative ease that creates institutional biases in both digital and other kinds of history.
